The holding euery man shall beate as loud,
As his strong sides can volly.

Musicke Playes. Enobarbus places them hand in hand.

The Song.

Come thou Monarch of the Vine,
Plumpie Bacchus, with pinke eyne:
In thy Fattes our Cares be drown'd,
With thy Grapes our haires be Crown'd.
Cup vs till the world go round,
Cup vs till the world go round

 Caesar. What would you more?
Pompey goodnight. Good Brother
Let me request you of our grauer businesse
Frownes at this leuitie. Gentle Lords let's part,
You see we haue burnt our cheekes. Strong Enobarbe
Is weaker then the Wine, and mine owne tongue
Spleet's what it speakes: the wilde disguise hath almost
Antickt vs all. What needs more words? goodnight.
Good Anthony your hand

 Pom. Ile try you on the shore

 Anth. And shall Sir, giues your hand

 Pom. Oh Anthony, you haue my Father house.
But what, we are Friends?
Come downe into the Boate

 Eno. Take heed you fall not Menas: Ile not on shore,
No to my Cabin: these Drummes,
These Trumpets, Flutes: what
Let Neptune heare, we bid aloud farewell
To these great Fellowes. Sound and be hang'd, sound out.

Sound a Flourish with Drummes.

 Enor. Hoo saies a there's my Cap

 Men. Hoa, Noble Captaine, come.

Exeunt.

Enter Ventidius as it were in triumph, the dead body of Pacorus
borne
before him.

 Ven. Now darting Parthya art thou stroke, and now
Pleas'd Fortune does of Marcus Crassus death
Make me reuenger. Beare the Kings Sonnes body,
Before our Army, thy Pacorus Orades,
Paies this for Marcus Crassus

 Romaine. Noble Ventidius,
Whil'st yet with Parthian blood thy Sword is warme,
The Fugitiue Parthians follow. Spurre through Media,
Mesapotamia, and the shelters, whether
The routed flie. So thy grand Captaine Anthony
Shall set thee on triumphant Chariots, and
Put Garlands on thy head

 Ven. Oh Sillius, Sillius,
I haue done enough. A lower place note well
May make too great an act. For learne this Sillius,
Better to leaue vndone, then by our deed
Acquire too high a Fame, when him we serues away.
Caesar and Anthony, haue euer wonne
More in their officer, then person. Sossius
One of my place in Syria, his Lieutenant,
For quicke accumulation of renowne,
Which he atchiu'd by'th' minute, lost his fauour.
Who does i'th' Warres more then his Captaine can,
Becomes his Captaines Captaine: and Ambition
(The Souldiers vertue) rather makes choise of losse
Then gaine, which darkens him.
I could do more to do Anthonius good,
But 'twould offend him. And in his offence,
Should my performance perish

 Rom. Thou hast Ventidius that, without the which a
Souldier and his Sword graunts scarce distinction: thou
wilt write to Anthony

 Ven. Ile humbly signifie what in his name,
That magicall word of Warre we haue effected,
How with his Banners, and his well paid ranks,
The nere-yet beaten Horse of Parthia,
We haue iaded out o'th' Field

 Rom. Where is he now?
Ven. He purposeth to Athens, whither with what hast
The waight we must conuay with's, will permit:
We shall appeare before him. On there, passe along.

Exeunt.

Enter Agrippa at one doore, Enobarbus at another.

 Agri. What are the Brothers parted?
Eno. They haue dispatcht with Pompey, he is gone,
The other three are Sealing. Octauia weepes
To part from Rome: Caesar is sad, and Lepidus
Since Pompey's feast, as Menas saies, is troubled
With the Greene-Sicknesse

 Agri. 'Tis a Noble Lepidus

 Eno. A very fine one: oh, how he loues Caesar

 Agri. Nay but how deerely he adores Mark Anthony

 Eno. Caesar? why he's the Iupiter of men

 Ant. What's Anthony, the God of Iupiter?
Eno. Spake you of Caesar? How, the non-pareill?
Agri. Oh Anthony, oh thou Arabian Bird!
Eno. Would you praise Caesar, say Caesar go no further

 Agr. Indeed he plied them both with excellent praises

 Eno. But he loues Caesar best, yet he loues Anthony:
Hoo, Hearts, Tongues, Figure,
Scribes, Bards, Poets, cannot
Thinke speake, cast, write, sing, number: hoo,
His loue to Anthony. But as for Caesar,
Kneele downe, kneele downe, and wonder

 Agri. Both he loues

 Eno. They are his Shards, and he their Beetle, so:
This is to horse: Adieu, Noble Agrippa

 Agri. Good Fortune worthy Souldier, and farewell.
Enter Caesar, Anthony, Lepidus, and Octauia.

 Antho. No further Sir

 Caesar. You take from me a great part of my selfe:
Vse me well in't. Sister, proue such a wife
As my thoughts make thee, and as my farthest Band
Shall passe on thy approofe: most Noble Anthony,
Let not the peece of Vertue which is set
Betwixt vs, as the Cyment of our loue
To keepe it builded, be the Ramme to batter
The Fortresse of it: for better might we
Haue lou'd without this meane, if on both parts
This be not cherisht

 Ant. Make me not offended, in your distrust

 Caesar. I haue said

 Ant. You shall not finde,
Though you be therein curious, the lest cause
For what you seeme to feare, so the Gods keepe you,
And make the hearts of Romaines serue your ends:
We will heere part

 Caesar. Farewell my deerest Sister, fare thee well,
The Elements be kind to thee, and make
Thy spirits all of comfort: fare thee well

 Octa. My Noble Brother

 Anth. The Aprill's in her eyes, it is Loues spring,
And these the showers to bring it on: be cheerfull

 Octa. Sir, looke well to my Husbands house: and-
Caesar. What Octauia?
Octa. Ile tell you in your eare

 Ant. Her tongue will not obey her heart, nor can
Her heart informe her tongue.
The Swannes downe feather
That stands vpon the Swell at the full of Tide:
And neither way inclines

 Eno. Will Caesar weepe?
Agr. He ha's a cloud in's face

 Eno. He were the worse for that were he a Horse, so is
he being a man

 Agri. Why Enobarbus:
When Anthony found Iulius Caesar dead,
He cried almost to roaring: And he wept,
When at Phillippi he found Brutus slaine

 Eno. That year indeed, he was trobled with a rheume,
What willingly he did confound, he wail'd,
Beleeu't till I weepe too

 Caesar. No sweet Octauia,
You shall heare from me still: the time shall not
Out-go my thinking on you

 Ant. Come Sir, come,
Ile wrastle with you in my strength of loue,
Looke heere I haue you, thus I let you go,
And giue you to the Gods

 Caesar. Adieu, be happy

 Lep. Let all the number of the Starres giue light
To thy faire way

 Caesar. Farewell, farewell.

Kisses Octauia.

 Ant. Farewell.

Trumpets sound. Exeunt.

Enter Cleopatra, Charmian, Iras, and Alexas.

 Cleo. Where is the Fellow?
Alex. Halfe afeard to come

 Cleo. Go too, go too: Come hither Sir.
Enter the Messenger as before.

 Alex. Good Maiestie: Herod of Iury dare not looke
vpon you, but when you are well pleas'd

 Cleo. That Herods head, Ile haue: but how? When
Anthony is gone, through whom I might commaund it:
Come thou neere

 Mes. Most gratious Maiestie

 Cleo. Did'st thou behold Octauia?
Mes. I dread Queene

 Cleo. Where?
Mes. Madam in Rome, I lookt her in the face: and
saw her led betweene her Brother, and Marke Anthony

 Cleo. Is she as tall as me?
Mes. She is not Madam

 Cleo. Didst heare her speake?
Is she shrill tongu'd or low?
Mes. Madam, I heard her speake, she is low voic'd

 Cleo. That's not so good: he cannot like her long

 Char. Like her? Oh Isis: 'tis impossible

 Cleo. I thinke so Charmian: dull of tongue, & dwarfish
What Maiestie is in her gate, remember
If ere thou look'st on Maiestie

 Mes. She creepes: her motion, & her station are as one.
She shewes a body, rather then a life,
A Statue, then a Breather

 Cleo. Is this certaine?
Mes. Or I haue no obseruance

 Cha. Three in Egypt cannot make better note

 Cleo. He's very knowing, I do perceiu't,
There's nothing in her yet.
The Fellow ha's good iudgement

 Char. Excellent

 Cleo. Guesse at her yeares, I prythee

 Mess. Madam, she was a widdow

 Cleo. Widdow? Charmian, hearke

 Mes. And I do thinke she's thirtie

 Cle. Bear'st thou her face in mind? is't long or round?
Mess. Round, euen to faultinesse

 Cleo. For the most part too, they are foolish that are
so. Her haire what colour?
Mess. Browne Madam: and her forehead
As low as she would wish it

 Cleo. There's Gold for thee,
Thou must not take my former sharpenesse ill,
I will employ thee backe againe: I finde thee
Most fit for businesse. Go, make thee ready,
Our Letters are prepar'd

 Char. A proper man

 Cleo. Indeed he is so: I repent me much
That so I harried him. Why me think's by him,
This Creature's no such thing

 Char. Nothing Madam

 Cleo. The man hath seene some Maiesty, and should
know

 Char. Hath he seene Maiestie? Isis else defend: and
seruing you so long

 Cleopa. I haue one thing more to aske him yet good
Charmian: but 'tis no matter, thou shalt bring him to me
where I will write; all may be well enough

 Char. I warrant you Madam.

Exeunt.

Enter Anthony and Octauia.

 Ant. Nay, nay Octauia, not onely that,
That were excusable, that and thousands more
Of semblable import, but he hath wag'd
New Warres 'gainst Pompey. Made his will, and read it,
To publicke eare, spoke scantly of me,
When perforce he could not
But pay me tearmes of Honour: cold and sickly
He vented then most narrow measure: lent me,
When the best hint was giuen him: he not took't,
Or did it from his teeth

 Octaui. Oh my good Lord,
Beleeue not all, or if you must beleeue,
Stomacke not all. A more vnhappie Lady,
If this deuision chance, ne're stood betweene
Praying for both parts:
The good Gods wil mocke me presently,
When I shall pray: Oh blesse my Lord, and Husband,
Vndo that prayer, by crying out as loud,
Oh blesse my Brother. Husband winne, winne Brother,
Prayes, and distroyes the prayer, no midway
'Twixt these extreames at all

 Ant. Gentle Octauia,
Let your best loue draw to that point which seeks
Best to preserue it: if I loose mine Honour,
I loose my selfe: better I were not yours
Then your so branchlesse. But as you requested,
Your selfe shall go between's, the meane time Lady,
Ile raise the preparation of a Warre
Shall staine your Brother, make your soonest hast,
So your desires are yours

 Oct. Thanks to my Lord,
The Ioue of power make me most weake, most weake,
Your reconciler: Warres 'twixt you twaine would be,
As if the world should cleaue, and that slaine men
Should soalder vp the Rift

 Anth. When it appeeres to you where this begins,
Turne your displeasure that way, for our faults
Can neuer be so equall, that your loue
Can equally moue with them. Prouide your going,
Choose your owne company, and command what cost
Your heart he's mind too.

Exeunt.

Enter Enobarbus, and Eros.

 Eno. How now Friend Eros?
Eros. Ther's strange Newes come Sir

 Eno. What man?
Ero. Caesar & Lepidus haue made warres vpon Pompey

 Eno. This is old, what is the successe?
Eros. Caesar hauing made vse of him in the warres
'gainst Pompey: presently denied him riuality, would not
let him partake in the glory of the action, and not resting
here, accuses him of Letters he had formerly wrote to
Pompey. Vpon his owne appeale seizes him, so the poore
third is vp, till death enlarge his Confine

 Eno. Then would thou hadst a paire of chaps no more,
and throw betweene them all the food thou hast, they'le
grinde the other. Where's Anthony?
Eros. He's walking in the garden thus, and spurnes
The rush that lies before him. Cries Foole Lepidus,
And threats the throate of that his Officer,
That murdred Pompey

 Eno. Our great Nauies rig'd

 Eros. For Italy and Caesar, more Domitius,
My Lord desires you presently: my Newes
I might haue told heareafter

 Eno. 'Twillbe naught, but let it be: bring me to Anthony

 Eros. Come Sir,

Exeunt.

Enter Agrippa, Mecenas, and Caesar.

 Caes Contemning Rome he ha's done all this, & more
In Alexandria: heere's the manner of't:
I'th' Market-place on a Tribunall siluer'd,
Cleopatra and himselfe in Chaires of Gold
Were publikely enthron'd: at the feet, sat
Caesarion whom they call my Fathers Sonne,
And all the vnlawfull issue, that their Lust
Since then hath made betweene them. Vnto her,
He gaue the stablishment of Egypt, made her
Of lower Syria, Cyprus, Lydia, absolute Queene

 Mece. This in the publike eye?
Caesar. I'th' common shew place, where they exercise,
His Sonnes hither proclaimed the King of Kings,
Great Media, Parthia, and Armenia
He gaue to Alexander. To Ptolomy he assign'd,
Syria, Silicia, and Phoenetia: she
In th' abiliments of the Goddesse Isis
That day appeer'd, and oft before gaue audience,
As 'tis reported so

 Mece. Let Rome be thus inform'd

 Agri. Who queazie with his insolence already,
Will their good thoughts call from him

 Caesar. The people knowes it,
And haue now receiu'd his accusations

 Agri. Who does he accuse?
Caesar. Caesar, and that hauing in Cicilie
Sextus Pompeius spoil'd, we had not rated him
His part o'th' Isle. Then does he say, he lent me
Some shipping vnrestor'd. Lastly, he frets
That Lepidus of the Triumpherate, should be depos'd,
And being that, we detaine all his Reuenue

 Agri. Sir, this should be answer'd

 Caesar. 'Tis done already, and the Messenger gone:
I haue told him Lepidus was growne too cruell,
That he his high Authority abus'd,
And did deserue his change: for what I haue conquer'd,
I grant him part: but then in his Armenia,
And other of his conquer'd Kingdoms, I demand the like
Mec. Hee'l neuer yeeld to that

 Caes Nor must not then be yeelded to in this.
Enter Octauia with her Traine.

 Octa. Haile Caesar, and my L[ord]. haile most deere Caesar

 Caesar. That euer I should call thee Cast-away

 Octa. You haue not call'd me so, nor haue you cause

 Caes Why haue you stoln vpon vs thus? you come not
Like Caesars Sister, The wife of Anthony
Should haue an Army for an Vsher, and
The neighes of Horse to tell of her approach,
Long ere she did appeare. The trees by'th' way
Should haue borne men, and expectation fainted,
Longing for what it had not. Nay, the dust
Should haue ascended to the Roofe of Heauen,
Rais'd by your populous Troopes: But you are come
A Market-maid to Rome, and haue preuented
The ostentation of our loue; which left vnshewne,
Is often left vnlou'd: we should haue met you
By Sea, and Land, supplying euery Stage
With an augmented greeting

 Octa. Good my Lord,
To come thus was I not constrain'd, but did it
On my free-will. My Lord Marke Anthony,
Hearing that you prepar'd for Warre, acquainted
My greeued eare withall: whereon I begg'd
His pardon for returne

 Caes Which soone he granted,
Being an abstract 'tweene his Lust, and him

 Octa. Do not say so, my Lord

 Caes I haue eyes vpon him,
And his affaires come to me on the wind: wher is he now?
Octa. My Lord, in Athens

 Caesar. No my most wronged Sister, Cleopatra
Hath nodded him to her. He hath giuen his Empire
Vp to a Whore, who now are leuying
The Kings o'th' earth for Warre. He hath assembled,
Bochus the King of Lybia, Archilaus
Of Cappadocia, Philadelphos King
Of Paphlagonia: the Thracian King Adullas,
King Manchus of Arabia, King of Pont,
Herod of Iewry, Mithridates King
Of Comageat, Polemen and Amintas,
The Kings of Mede, and Licoania,
With a more larger List of Scepters

 Octa. Aye me most wretched,
That haue my heart parted betwixt two Friends,
That does afflict each other

 Caes Welcom hither: your Letters did with-holde our breaking
forth
Till we perceiu'd both how you were wrong led,
And we in negligent danger: cheere your heart,
Be you not troubled with the time, which driues
O're your content, these strong necessities,
But let determin'd things to destinie
Hold vnbewayl'd their way. Welcome to Rome,
Nothing more deere to me: You are abus'd
Beyond the marke of thought: and the high Gods
To do you Iustice, makes his Ministers
Of vs, and those that loue you. Best of comfort,
And euer welcom to vs

 Agrip. Welcome Lady

 Mec. Welcome deere Madam,
Each heart in Rome does loue and pitty you,
Onely th' adulterous Anthony, most large
In his abhominations, turnes you off,
And giues his potent Regiment to a Trull
That noyses it against vs

 Octa. Is it so sir?
Caes Most certaine: Sister welcome: pray you
Be euer knowne to patience. My deer'st Sister.

Exeunt.

Enter Cleopatra, and Enobarbus.

 Cleo. I will be euen with thee, doubt it not

 Eno. But why, why, why?
Cleo. Thou hast forespoke my being in these warres,
And say'st it is not fit

 Eno. Well: is it, is it

 Cleo. If not, denounc'd against vs, why should not
we be there in person

 Enob. Well, I could reply: if wee should serue with
Horse and Mares together, the Horse were meerly lost:
the Mares would beare a Soldiour and his Horse

 Cleo. What is't you say?
Enob. Your presence needs must puzle Anthony,
Take from his heart, take from his Braine, from's time,
What should not then be spar'd. He is already
Traduc'd for Leuity, and 'tis said in Rome,
That Photinus an Eunuch, and your Maides
Mannage this warre

 Cleo. Sinke Rome, and their tongues rot
That speake against vs. A Charge we beare i'th' Warre,
And as the president of my Kingdome will
Appeare there for a man. Speake not against it,
I will not stay behinde.
Enter Anthony and Camidias.

 Eno. Nay I haue done, here comes the Emperor

 Ant. Is it not strange Camidius,
That from Tarientum, and Brandusium,
He could so quickly cut the Ionian Sea,
And take in Troine. You haue heard on't (Sweet?)
Cleo. Celerity is neuer more admir'd,
Then by the negligent

 Ant. A good rebuke,
Which might haue well becom'd the best of men
To taunt at slacknesse. Camidius, wee
Will fight with him by Sea

 Cleo. By Sea, what else?
Cam. Why will my Lord, do so?
Ant. For that he dares vs too't

 Enob. So hath my Lord, dar'd him to single fight

 Cam. I, and to wage this Battell at Pharsalia,
Where Caesar fought with Pompey. But these offers
Which serue not for his vantage, he shakes off,
And so should you

 Enob. Your Shippes are not well mann'd,
Your Marriners are Militers, Reapers, people
Ingrost by swift Impresse. In Caesars Fleete,
Are those, that often haue 'gainst Pompey fought,
Their shippes are yare, yours heauy: no disgrace
Shall fall you for refusing him at Sea,
Being prepar'd for Land

 Ant. By Sea, by Sea

 Eno. Most worthy Sir, you therein throw away
The absolute Soldiership you haue by Land,
Distract your Armie, which doth most consist
Of Warre-markt-footmen, leaue vnexecuted
Your owne renowned knowledge, quite forgoe
The way which promises assurance, and
Giue vp your selfe meerly to chance and hazard,
From firme Securitie

 Ant. Ile fight at Sea

 Cleo. I haue sixty Sailes, Caesar none better

 Ant. Our ouer-plus of shipping will we burne,
And with the rest full mann'd, from th' head of Action
Beate th' approaching Caesar. But if we faile,
We then can doo't at Land.
Enter a Messenger.

Thy Businesse?
Mes. The Newes is true, my Lord, he is descried,
Caesar ha's taken Toryne

 Ant. Can he be there in person? 'Tis impossible
Strange, that his power should be. Camidius,
Our nineteene Legions thou shalt hold by Land,
And our twelue thousand Horse. Wee'l to our Ship,
Away my Thetis.
Enter a Soldiour.

How now worthy Souldier?
Soul. Oh Noble Emperor, do not fight by Sea,
Trust not to rotten plankes: Do you misdoubt
This Sword, and these my Wounds; let th' Egyptians
And the Phoenicians go a ducking: wee
Haue vs'd to conquer standing on the earth,
And fighting foot to foot

 Ant. Well, well, away.

exit Ant. Cleo. & Enob

 Soul. By Hercules I thinke I am i'th' right

 Cam. Souldier thou art: but his whole action growes
Not in the power on't: so our Leaders leade,
And we are Womens mens

 Soul. You keepe by Land the Legions and the Horse
whole, do you not?
Ven. Marcus Octauius, Marcus Iusteus,
Publicola, and Celius, are for Sea:
But we keepe whole by Land. This speede of Caesars
Carries beyond beleefe

 Soul. While he was yet in Rome,
His power went out in such distractions,
As beguilde all Spies

 Cam. Who's his Lieutenant, heare you?
Soul. They say, one Towrus

 Cam. Well, I know the man.
Enter a Messenger.

 Mes. The Emperor cals Camidius

 Cam. With Newes the times with Labour,
And throwes forth each minute, some.

Exeunt.

Enter Caesar with his Army, marching.

 Caes Towrus?
Tow. My Lord

 Caes Strike not by Land,
Keepe whole, prouoke not Battaile
Till we haue done at Sea. Do not exceede
The Prescript of this Scroule: Our fortune lyes
Vpon this iumpe.
Enter.

Enter Anthony, and Enobarbus.

 Ant. Set we our Squadrons on yond side o'th' Hill,
In eye of Caesars battaile, from which place
We may the number of the Ships behold,
And so proceed accordingly.
Enter.

Camidius Marcheth with his Land Army one way ouer the stage,
and Towrus
the Lieutenant of Caesar the other way: After their going in, is
heard the
noise of a Sea fight. Alarum. Enter Enobarbus and Scarus.

 Eno. Naught, naught, al naught, I can behold no longer:
Thantoniad, the Egyptian Admirall,
With all their sixty flye, and turne the Rudder:
To see't, mine eyes are blasted.
Enter Scarrus.

 Scar. Gods, & Goddesses, all the whol synod of them!
Eno. What's thy passion

 Scar. The greater Cantle of the world, is lost
With very ignorance, we haue kist away
Kingdomes, and Prouinces

 Eno. How appeares the Fight?
Scar. On our side, like the Token'd Pestilence,
Where death is sure. Yon ribaudred Nagge of Egypt,
(Whom Leprosie o're-take) i'th' midst o'th' fight,
When vantage like a payre of Twinnes appear'd
Both as the same, or rather ours the elder;
(The Breeze vpon her) like a Cow in Iune,
Hoists Sailes, and flyes

 Eno. That I beheld:
Mine eyes did sicken at the sight, and could not
Indure a further view

 Scar. She once being looft,
The Noble ruine of her Magicke, Anthony,
Claps on his Sea-wing, and (like a doting Mallard)
Leauing the Fight in heighth, flyes after her:
I neuer saw an Action of such shame;
Experience, Man-hood, Honor, ne're before,
Did violate so it selfe

 Enob. Alacke, alacke.
Enter Camidius

 Cam. Our Fortune on the Sea is out of breath,
And sinkes most lamentably. Had our Generall
Bin what he knew himselfe, it had gone well:
Oh his ha's giuen example for our flight,
Most grossely by his owne

 Enob. I, are you thereabouts? Why then goodnight
indeede

 Cam. Toward Peloponnesus are they fled

 Scar. 'Tis easie toot,
And there I will attend what further comes

 Camid. To Caesar will I render
My Legions and my Horse, sixe Kings alreadie
Shew me the way of yeelding

 Eno. Ile yet follow
The wounded chance of Anthony, though my reason
Sits in the winde against me.
Enter Anthony with Attendants.

 Ant. Hearke, the Land bids me tread no more vpon't,
It is asham'd to beare me. Friends, come hither,
I am so lated in the world, that I
Haue lost my way for euer. I haue a shippe,
Laden with Gold, take that, diuide it: flye,
And make your peace with Caesar

 Omnes. Fly? Not wee

 Ant. I haue fled my selfe, and haue instructed cowards
To runne, and shew their shoulders. Friends be gone,
I haue my selfe resolu'd vpon a course,
Which has no neede of you. Be gone,
My Treasure's in the Harbour. Take it: Oh,
I follow'd that I blush to looke vpon,
My very haires do mutiny: for the white
Reproue the browne for rashnesse, and they them
For feare, and doting. Friends be gone, you shall
Haue Letters from me to some Friends, that will
Sweepe your way for you. Pray you looke not sad,
Nor make replyes of loathnesse, take the hint
Which my dispaire proclaimes. Let them be left
Which leaues it selfe, to the Sea-side straight way;
I will possesse you of that ship and Treasure.
Leaue me, I pray a little: pray you now,
Nay do so: for indeede I haue lost command,
Therefore I pray you, Ile see you by and by.

Sits downe

Enter Cleopatra led by Charmian and Eros.

 Eros. Nay gentle Madam, to him, comfort him

 Iras. Do most deere Queene

 Char. Do, why, what else?
Cleo. Let me sit downe: Oh Iuno

 Ant. No, no, no, no, no

 Eros. See you heere, Sir?
Ant. Oh fie, fie, fie

 Char. Madam

 Iras. Madam, oh good Empresse

 Eros. Sir, sir

 Ant. Yes my Lord, yes; he at Philippi kept
His sword e'ne like a dancer, while I strooke
The leane and wrinkled Cassius, and 'twas I
That the mad Brutus ended: he alone
Dealt on Lieutenantry, and no practise had
In the braue squares of Warre: yet now: no matter

 Cleo. Ah stand by

 Eros. The Queene my Lord, the Queene

 Iras. Go to him, Madam, speake to him,
Hee's vnqualitied with very shame

 Cleo. Well then, sustaine me: Oh

 Eros. Most Noble Sir arise, the Queene approaches,
Her head's declin'd, and death will cease her, but
Your comfort makes the rescue

 Ant. I haue offended Reputation,
A most vnnoble sweruing

 Eros. Sir, the Queene

 Ant. Oh whether hast thou lead me Egypt, see
How I conuey my shame, out of thine eyes,
By looking backe what I haue left behinde
Stroy'd in dishonor

 Cleo. Oh my Lord, my Lord,
Forgiue my fearfull sayles, I little thought
You would haue followed

 Ant. Egypt, thou knew'st too well,
My heart was to thy Rudder tyed by'th' strings,
And thou should'st towe me after. O're my spirit
The full supremacie thou knew'st, and that
Thy becke, might from the bidding of the Gods
Command mee

 Cleo. Oh my pardon

 Ant. Now I must
To the young man send humble Treaties, dodge
And palter in the shifts of lownes, who
With halfe the bulke o'th' world plaid as I pleas'd,
Making, and marring Fortunes. You did know
How much you were my Conqueror, and that
My Sword, made weake by my affection, would
Obey it on all cause

 Cleo. Pardon, pardon

 Ant. Fall not a teare I say, one of them rates
All that is wonne and lost: Giue me a kisse,
Euen this repayes me.
We sent our Schoolemaster, is a come backe?
Loue I am full of Lead: some Wine
Within there, and our Viands: Fortune knowes,
We scorne her most, when most she offers blowes.

Exeunt.

Enter Caesar, Agrippa, and Dollabello, with others.

 Caes Let him appeare that's come from Anthony.
Know you him

 Dolla. Caesar, 'tis his Schoolemaster,
An argument that he is pluckt, when hither
He sends so poore a Pinnion of his Wing,
Which had superfluous Kings for Messengers,
Not many Moones gone by.
Enter Ambassador from Anthony.

 Caesar. Approach, and speake

 Amb. Such as I am, I come from Anthony:
I was of late as petty to his ends,
As is the Morne-dew on the Mertle leafe
To his grand Sea

 Caes Bee't so, declare thine office

 Amb. Lord of his Fortunes he salutes thee, and
Requires to liue in Egypt, which not granted
He Lessons his Requests, and to thee sues
To let him breath betweene the Heauens and Earth
A priuate man in Athens: this for him.
Next, Cleopatra does confesse thy Greatnesse,
Submits her to thy might, and of thee craues
The Circle of the Ptolomies for her heyres,
Now hazarded to thy Grace

 Caes For Anthony,
I haue no eares to his request. The Queene,
Of Audience, nor Desire shall faile, so shee
From Egypt driue her all-disgraced Friend,
Or take his life there. This if shee performe,
She shall not sue vnheard. So to them both

 Amb. Fortune pursue thee

 Caes Bring him through the Bands:
To try thy Eloquence, now 'tis time, dispatch,
From Anthony winne Cleopatra, promise
And in our Name, what she requires, adde more
From thine inuention, offers. Women are not
In their best Fortunes strong; but want will periure
The ne're touch'd Vestall. Try thy cunning Thidias,
Make thine owne Edict for thy paines, which we
Will answer as a Law

 Thid. Caesar. I go

 Caesar. Obserue how Anthony becomes his flaw,
And what thou think'st his very action speakes
In euery power that mooues

 Thid. Caesar, I shall.

Exeunt.

Enter Cleopatra, Enobarbus, Charmian, & Iras.

 Cleo. What shall we do, Enobarbus?
Eno. Thinke, and dye

 Cleo. Is Anthony, or we in fault for this?
Eno. Anthony onely, that would make his will
Lord of his Reason. What though you fled,
From that great face of Warre, whose seuerall ranges
Frighted each other? Why should he follow?
The itch of his Affection should not then
Haue nickt his Captain-ship, at such a point,
When halfe to halfe the world oppos'd, he being
The meered question? 'Twas a shame no lesse
Then was his losse, to course your flying Flagges,
And leaue his Nauy gazing

 Cleo. Prythee peace.
Enter the Ambassador, with Anthony.

 Ant. Is that his answer?
Amb. I my Lord

 Ant. The Queene shall then haue courtesie,
So she will yeeld vs vp

 Am. He sayes so

 Antho. Let her know't. To the Boy Caesar send this
grizled head, and he will fill thy wishes to the brimme,
With Principalities

 Cleo. That head my Lord?
Ant. To him againe, tell him he weares the Rose
Of youth vpon him: from which, the world should note
Something particular: His Coine, Ships, Legions,
May be a Cowards, whose Ministers would preuaile
Vnder the seruice of a Childe, as soone
As i'th' Command of Caesar. I dare him therefore
To lay his gay Comparisons a-part,
And answer me declin'd, Sword against Sword,
Our selues alone: Ile write it: Follow me

 Eno. Yes like enough: hye battel'd Caesar will
Vnstate his happinesse, and be Stag'd to'th' shew
Against a Sworder. I see mens Iudgements are
A parcell of their Fortunes, and things outward
Do draw the inward quality after them
To suffer all alike, that he should dreame,
Knowing all measures, the full Caesar will
Answer his emptinesse; Caesar thou hast subdu'de
His iudgement too.
Enter a Seruant.

 Ser. A Messenger from Caesar

 Cleo. What no more Ceremony? See my Women,
Against the blowne Rose may they stop their nose,
That kneel'd vnto the Buds. Admit him sir

 Eno. Mine honesty, and I, beginne to square,
The Loyalty well held to Fooles, does make
Our Faith meere folly: yet he that can endure
To follow with Allegeance a falne Lord,
Does conquer him that did his Master conquer,
And earnes a place i'th' Story.
Enter Thidias.

 Cleo. Caesars will

 Thid. Heare it apart

 Cleo. None but Friends: say boldly

 Thid. So haply are they Friends to Anthony

 Enob. He needs as many (Sir) as Caesar ha's,
Or needs not vs. If Caesar please, our Master
Will leape to be his Friend: For vs you know,
Whose he is, we are, and that is Caesars

 Thid. So. Thus then thou most renown'd, Caesar intreats,
Not to consider in what case thou stand'st
Further then he is Caesars

 Cleo. Go on, right Royall

 Thid. He knowes that you embrace not Anthony
As you did loue, but as you feared him

 Cleo. Oh

 Thid. The scarre's vpon your Honor, therefore he
Does pitty, as constrained blemishes,
Not as deserued

 Cleo. He is a God,
And knowes what is most right. Mine Honour
Was not yeelded, but conquer'd meerely

 Eno. To be sure of that, I will aske Anthony.
Sir, sir, thou art so leakie
That we must leaue thee to thy sinking, for
Thy deerest quit thee.

Exit Enob.

 Thid. Shall I say to Caesar,
What you require of him: for he partly begges
To be desir'd to giue. It much would please him,
That of his Fortunes you should make a staffe
To leane vpon. But it would warme his spirits
To heare from me you had left Anthony,
And put your selfe vnder his shrowd, the vniuersal Landlord

 Cleo. What's your name?
Thid. My name is Thidias

 Cleo. Most kinde Messenger,
Say to great Caesar this in disputation,
I kisse his conqu'ring hand: Tell him, I am prompt
To lay my Crowne at's feete, and there to kneele.
Tell him, from his all-obeying breath, I heare
The doome of Egypt

 Thid. 'Tis your Noblest course:
Wisedome and Fortune combatting together,
If that the former dare but what it can,
No chance may shake it. Giue me grace to lay
My dutie on your hand

 Cleo. Your Caesars Father oft,
(When he hath mus'd of taking kingdomes in)
Bestow'd his lips on that vnworthy place,
As it rain'd kisses.
Enter Anthony and Enobarbus.

 Ant. Fauours? By Ioue that thunders. What art thou Fellow?
Thid. One that but performes
The bidding of the fullest man, and worthiest
To haue command obey'd

 Eno. You will be whipt

 Ant. Approch there: ah you Kite. Now Gods & diuels
Authority melts from me of late. When I cried hoa,
Like Boyes vnto a musse, Kings would start forth,
And cry, your will. Haue you no eares?
I am Anthony yet. Take hence this Iack, and whip him.
Enter a Seruant.

 Eno. 'Tis better playing with a Lions whelpe,
Then with an old one dying

 Ant. Moone and Starres,
Whip him: wer't twenty of the greatest Tributaries
That do acknowledge Caesar, should I finde them
So sawcy with the hand of she heere, what's her name
Since she was Cleopatra? Whip him Fellowes,
Till like a Boy you see him crindge his face,
And whine aloud for mercy. Take him hence

 Thid. Marke Anthony

 Ant. Tugge him away: being whipt
Bring him againe, the Iacke of Caesars shall
Beare vs an arrant to him.

Exeunt. with Thidius.

You were halfe blasted ere I knew you: Ha?
Haue I my pillow left vnprest in Rome,
Forborne the getting of a lawfull Race,
And by a Iem of women, to be abus'd
By one that lookes on Feeders?
Cleo. Good my Lord

 Ant. You haue beene a boggeler euer,
But when we in our viciousnesse grow hard
(Oh misery on't) the wise Gods seele our eyes
In our owne filth, drop our cleare iudgements, make vs
Adore our errors, laugh at's while we strut
To our confusion

 Cleo. Oh, is't come to this?
Ant. I found you as a Morsell, cold vpon
Dead Caesars Trencher: Nay, you were a Fragment
Of Gneius Pompeyes, besides what hotter houres
Vnregistred in vulgar Fame, you haue
Luxuriously pickt out. For I am sure,
Though you can guesse what Temperance should be,
You know not what it is

 Cleo. Wherefore is this?
Ant. To let a Fellow that will take rewards,
And say, God quit you, be familiar with
My play-fellow, your hand; this Kingly Seale,
And plighter of high hearts. O that I were
Vpon the hill of Basan, to out-roare
The horned Heard, for I haue sauage cause,
And to proclaime it ciuilly, were like
A halter'd necke, which do's the Hangman thanke,
For being yare about him. Is he whipt?
Enter a Seruant with Thidias.

 Ser. Soundly, my Lord

 Ant. Cried he? and begg'd a Pardon?
Ser. He did aske fauour

 Ant. If that thy Father liue, let him repent
Thou was't not made his daughter, and be thou sorrie
To follow Caesar in his Triumph, since
Thou hast bin whipt. For following him, henceforth
The white hand of a Lady Feauer thee,
Shake thou to looke on't. Get thee backe to Caesar,
Tell him thy entertainment: looke thou say
He makes me angry with him. For he seemes
Proud and disdainfull, harping on what I am,
Not what he knew I was. He makes me angry,
And at this time most easie 'tis to doo't:
When my good Starres, that were my former guides
Haue empty left their Orbes, and shot their Fires
Into th' Abisme of hell. If he mislike,
My speech, and what is done, tell him he has
Hiparchus, my enfranched Bondman, whom
He may at pleasure whip, or hang, or torture,
As he shall like to quit me. Vrge it thou:
Hence with thy stripes, be gone.

Exit Thid.

 Cleo. Haue you done yet?
Ant. Alacke our Terrene Moone is now Eclipst,
And it portends alone the fall of Anthony

 Cleo. I must stay his time?
Ant. To flatter Caesar, would you mingle eyes
With one that tyes his points

 Cleo. Not know me yet?
Ant. Cold-hearted toward me?
Cleo. Ah (Deere) if I be so,
From my cold heart let Heauen ingender haile,
And poyson it in the sourse, and the first stone
Drop in my necke: as it determines so
Dissolue my life, the next Caesarian smile,
Till by degrees the memory of my wombe,
Together with my braue Egyptians all,
By the discandering of this pelleted storme,
Lye grauelesse, till the Flies and Gnats of Nyle
Haue buried them for prey

 Ant. I am satisfied:
Caesar sets downe in Alexandria, where
I will oppose his Fate. Our force by Land,
Hath Nobly held, our seuer'd Nauie too
Haue knit againe, and Fleete, threatning most Sea-like.
Where hast thou bin my heart? Dost thou heare Lady?
If from the Field I shall returne once more
To kisse these Lips, I will appeare in Blood,
I, and my Sword, will earne our Chronicle,
There's hope in't yet

 Cleo. That's my braue Lord

 Ant. I will be trebble-sinewed, hearted, breath'd,
And fight maliciously: for when mine houres
Were nice and lucky, men did ransome liues
Of me for iests: But now, Ile set my teeth,
And send to darkenesse all that stop me. Come,
Let's haue one other gawdy night: Call to me
All my sad Captaines, fill our Bowles once more:
Let's mocke the midnight Bell

 Cleo. It is my Birth-day,
I had thought t'haue held it poore. But since my Lord
Is Anthony againe, I will be Cleopatra

 Ant. We will yet do well

 Cleo. Call all his Noble Captaines to my Lord

 Ant. Do so, wee'l speake to them,
And to night Ile force
The Wine peepe through their scarres.
Come on (my Queene)
There's sap in't yet. The next time I do fight
Ile make death loue me: for I will contend
Euen with his pestilent Sythe.

Exeunt.

 Eno. Now hee'l out-stare the Lightning, to be furious
Is to be frighted out of feare, and in that moode
The Doue will pecke the Estridge; and I see still
A diminution in our Captaines braine,
Restores his heart; when valour prayes in reason,
It eates the Sword it fights with: I will seeke
Some way to leaue him.

Exeunt.

Enter Caesar, Agrippa, & Mecenas with his Army, Caesar reading
a Letter.

 Caes He calles me Boy, and chides as he had power
To beate me out of Egypt. My Messenger
He hath whipt with Rods, dares me to personal Combat.
Caesar to Anthony: let the old Ruffian know,
I haue many other wayes to dye: meane time
Laugh at his Challenge

 Mece. Caesar must thinke,
When one so great begins to rage, hee's hunted
Euen to falling. Giue him no breath, but now
Make boote of his distraction: Neuer anger
Made good guard for it selfe

 Caes Let our best heads know,
That to morrow, the last of many Battailes
We meane to fight. Within our Files there are,
Of those that seru'd Marke Anthony but late,
Enough to fetch him in. See it done,
And Feast the Army, we haue store to doo't,
And they haue earn'd the waste. Poore Anthony.

Exeunt.

Enter Anthony, Cleopatra, Enobarbus, Charmian, Iras, Alexas,
with others.

 Ant. He will not fight with me, Domitian?
Eno. No?
Ant. Why should he not?
Eno. He thinks, being twenty times of better fortune,
He is twenty men to one

 Ant. To morrow Soldier,
By Sea and Land Ile fight: or I will liue,
Or bathe my dying Honor in the blood
Shall make it liue againe. Woo't thou fight well

 Eno. Ile strike, and cry, Take all

 Ant. Well said, come on:
Call forth my Houshold Seruants, lets to night
Enter 3 or 4 Seruitors.

Be bounteous at our Meale. Giue me thy hand,
Thou hast bin rightly honest, so hast thou,
Thou, and thou, and thou: you haue seru'd me well,
And Kings haue beene your fellowes

 Cleo. What meanes this?
Eno. 'Tis one of those odde tricks which sorow shoots
Out of the minde

 Ant. And thou art honest too:
I wish I could be made so many men,
And all of you clapt vp together, in
An Anthony: that I might do you seruice,
So good as you haue done

 Omnes. The Gods forbid

 Ant. Well, my good Fellowes, wait on me to night:
Scant not my Cups, and make as much of me,
As when mine Empire was your Fellow too,
And suffer'd my command

 Cleo. What does he meane?
Eno. To make his Followers weepe

 Ant. Tend me to night;
May be, it is the period of your duty,
Haply you shall not see me more, or if,
A mangled shadow. Perchance to morrow,
You'l serue another Master. I looke on you,
As one that takes his leaue. Mine honest Friends,
I turne you not away, but like a Master
Married to your good seruice, stay till death:
Tend me to night two houres, I aske no more,
And the Gods yeeld you for't

 Eno. What meane you (Sir)
To giue them this discomfort? Looke they weepe,
And I an Asse, am Onyon-ey'd; for shame,
Transforme vs not to women

 Ant. Ho, ho, ho:
Now the Witch take me, if I meant it thus.
Grace grow where those drops fall (my hearty Friends)
You take me in too dolorous a sense,
For I spake to you for your comfort, did desire you
To burne this night with Torches: Know (my hearts)
I hope well of to morrow, and will leade you,
Where rather Ile expect victorious life,
Then death, and Honor. Let's to Supper, come,
And drowne consideration.

Exeunt.

Enter a Company of Soldiours.

 1.Sol. Brother, goodnight: to morrow is the day

 2.Sol. It will determine one way: Fare you well.
Heard you of nothing strange about the streets

 1 Nothing: what newes?
2 Belike 'tis but a Rumour, good night to you

 1 Well sir, good night.

They meete other Soldiers.

 2 Souldiers, haue carefull Watch

 1 And you: Goodnight, goodnight.

They place themselues in euery corner of the Stage.

 2 Heere we: and if to morrow
Our Nauie thriue, I haue an absolute hope
Our Landmen will stand vp

 1 'Tis a braue Army, and full of purpose.

Musicke of the Hoboyes is vnder the Stage.

 2 Peace, what noise?
1 List, list

 2 Hearke

 1 Musicke i'th' Ayre

 3 Vnder the earth

 4 It signes well, do's it not?
3 No

 1 Peace I say: What should this meane?
2 'Tis the God Hercules, whom Anthony loued,
Now leaues him

 1 Walke, let's see if other Watchmen
Do heare what we do?
2 How now Maisters?

Speak together.

 Omnes. How now? how now? do you heare this?
1 I, is't not strange?
3 Do you heare Masters? Do you heare?
1 Follow the noyse so farre as we haue quarter.
Let's see how it will giue off

 Omnes. Content: 'Tis strange.

Exeunt.

Enter Anthony and Cleopatra, with others.

 Ant. Eros, mine Armour Eros

 Cleo. Sleepe a little

 Ant. No my Chucke. Eros, come mine Armor Eros.
Enter Eros.

Come good Fellow, put thine Iron on,
If Fortune be not ours to day, it is
Because we braue her. Come

 Cleo. Nay, Ile helpe too, Anthony.
What's this for? Ah let be, let be, thou art
The Armourer of my heart: False, false: This, this,
Sooth-law Ile helpe: Thus it must bee

 Ant. Well, well, we shall thriue now.
Seest thou my good Fellow. Go, put on thy defences

 Eros. Briefely Sir

 Cleo. Is not this buckled well?
Ant. Rarely, rarely:
He that vnbuckles this, till we do please
To daft for our Repose, shall heare a storme.
Thou fumblest Eros, and my Queenes a Squire
More tight at this, then thou: Dispatch. O Loue,
That thou couldst see my Warres to day, and knew'st
The Royall Occupation, thou should'st see
A Workeman in't.
Enter an Armed Soldier.

Good morrow to thee, welcome,
Thou look'st like him that knowes a warlike Charge:
To businesse that we loue, we rise betime,
And go too't with delight

 Soul. A thousand Sir, early though't be, haue on their
Riueted trim, and at the Port expect you.

Showt. Trumpets Flourish. Enter Captaines, and Souldiers.

 Alex. The Morne is faire: Good morrow Generall

 All. Good morrow Generall

 Ant. 'Tis well blowne Lads.
This Morning, like the spirit of a youth
That meanes to be of note, begins betimes.
So, so: Come giue me that, this way, well-sed.
Fare thee well Dame, what ere becomes of me,
This is a Soldiers kisse: rebukeable,
And worthy shamefull checke it were, to stand
On more Mechanicke Complement, Ile leaue thee.
Now like a man of Steele, you that will fight,
Follow me close, Ile bring you too't: Adieu.

Exeunt.

 Char. Please you retyre to your Chamber?
Cleo. Lead me:
He goes forth gallantly: That he and Caesar might
Determine this great Warre in single fight;
Then Anthony; but now. Well on.

Exeunt.

Trumpets sound. Enter Anthony, and Eros.

 Eros. The Gods make this a happy day to Anthony

 Ant. Would thou, & those thy scars had once preuaild
To make me fight at Land

 Eros. Had'st thou done so,
The Kings that haue reuolted, and the Soldier
That has this morning left thee, would haue still
Followed thy heeles

 Ant. Whose gone this morning?
Eros. Who? one euer neere thee, call for Enobarbus,
He shall not heare thee, or from Caesars Campe,
Say I am none of thine

 Ant. What sayest thou?
Sold. Sir he is with Caesar

 Eros. Sir, his Chests and Treasure he has not with him

 Ant. Is he gone?
Sol. Most certaine

 Ant. Go Eros, send his Treasure after, do it,
Detaine no iot I charge thee: write to him,
(I will subscribe) gentle adieu's, and greetings;
Say, that I wish he neuer finde more cause
To change a Master. Oh my Fortunes haue
Corrupted honest men. Dispatch Enobarbus.

Exit

Flourish. Enter Agrippa, Caesar, with Enobarbus, and Dollabella.

 Caes Go forth Agrippa, and begin the fight:
Our will is Anthony be tooke aliue:
Make it so knowne

 Agrip. Caesar, I shall

 Caesar. The time of vniuersall peace is neere:
Proue this a prosp'rous day, the three nook'd world
Shall beare the Oliue freely.

Enter a Messenger.

 Mes. Anthony is come into the Field

 Caes Go charge Agrippa,
Plant those that haue reuolted in the Vant,
That Anthony may seeme to spend his Fury
Vpon himselfe.

Exeunt.

 Enob. Alexas did reuolt, and went to Iewry on
Affaires of Anthony, there did disswade
Great Herod to incline himselfe to Caesar,
And leaue his Master Anthony. For this paines,
Caesar hath hang'd him: Camindius and the rest
That fell away, haue entertainment, but
No honourable trust: I haue done ill,
Of which I do accuse my selfe so sorely,
That I will ioy no more.

Enter a Soldier of Caesars.

 Sol. Enobarbus, Anthony
Hath after thee sent all thy Treasure, with
His Bounty ouer-plus. The Messenger
Came on my guard, and at thy Tent is now
Vnloading of his Mules

 Eno. I giue it you

 Sol. Mocke not Enobarbus,
I tell you true: Best you saf't the bringer
Out of the hoast, I must attend mine Office,
Or would haue done't my selfe. Your Emperor
Continues still a Ioue.

Exit

 Enob. I am alone the Villaine of the earth,
And feele I am so most. Oh Anthony,
Thou Mine of Bounty, how would'st thou haue payed
My better seruice, when my turpitude
Thou dost so Crowne with Gold. This blowes my hart,
If swift thought breake it not: a swifter meane
Shall out-strike thought, but thought will doo't. I feele
I fight against thee: No I will go seeke
Some Ditch, wherein to dye: the foul'st best fits
My latter part of life.

Enter.

Alarum, Drummes and Trumpets. Enter Agrippa.

 Agrip. Retire, we haue engag'd our selues too farre:
Caesar himselfe ha's worke, and our oppression
Exceeds what we expected.

Enter.

Alarums. Enter Anthony, and Scarrus wounded.

 Scar. O my braue Emperor, this is fought indeed,
Had we done so at first, we had drouen them home
With clowts about their heads.

Far off.

 Ant. Thou bleed'st apace

 Scar. I had a wound heere that was like a T,
But now 'tis made an H

 Ant. They do retyre

 Scar. Wee'l beat 'em into Bench-holes, I haue yet
Roome for six scotches more

Enter Eros.

 Eros. They are beaten Sir, and our aduantage serues
For a faire victory

 Scar. Let vs score their backes,
And snatch 'em vp, as we take Hares behinde,
'Tis sport to maul a Runner

 Ant. I will reward thee
Once for thy sprightly comfort, and ten-fold
For thy good valour. Come thee on

 Scar. Ile halt after.

Exeunt.

Alarum. Enter Anthony againe in a March. Scarrus, with others.

 Ant. We haue beate him to his Campe: Runne one
Before, & let the Queen know of our guests: to morrow
Before the Sun shall see's, wee'l spill the blood
That ha's to day escap'd. I thanke you all,
For doughty handed are you, and haue fought
Not as you seru'd the Cause, but as't had beene
Each mans like mine: you haue shewne all Hectors.
Enter the Citty, clip your Wiues, your Friends,
Tell them your feats, whil'st they with ioyfull teares
Wash the congealement from your wounds, and kisse
The Honour'd-gashes whole.
Enter Cleopatra.

Giue me thy hand,
To this great Faiery, Ile commend thy acts,
Make her thankes blesse thee. Oh thou day o'th' world,
Chaine mine arm'd necke, leape thou, Attyre and all
Through proofe of Harnesse to my heart, and there
Ride on the pants triumphing

 Cleo. Lord of Lords.
Oh infinite Vertue, comm'st thou smiling from
The worlds great snare vncaught

 Ant. Mine Nightingale,
We haue beate them to their Beds.
What Gyrle, though gray
Do somthing mingle with our yonger brown, yet ha we
A Braine that nourishes our Nerues, and can
Get gole for gole of youth. Behold this man,
Commend vnto his Lippes thy fauouring hand,
Kisse it my Warriour: He hath fought to day,
As if a God in hate of Mankinde, had
Destroyed in such a shape

 Cleo. Ile giue thee Friend
An Armour all of Gold: it was a Kings

 Ant. He has deseru'd it, were it Carbunkled
Like holy Phoebus Carre. Giue me thy hand,
Through Alexandria make a iolly March,

Beare our hackt Targets, like the men that owe them.
Had our great Pallace the capacity
To Campe this hoast, we all would sup together,
And drinke Carowses to the next dayes Fate
Which promises Royall perill, Trumpetters
With brazen dinne blast you the Citties eare,
Make mingle with our ratling Tabourines,
That heauen and earth may strike their sounds together,
Applauding our approach.

Exeunt.

Enter a Centerie, and his Company, Enobarbus followes.

 Cent. If we be not releeu'd within this houre,
We must returne to'th' Court of Guard: the night
Is shiny, and they say, we shall embattaile
By'th' second houre i'th' Morne

 1.Watch. This last day was a shrew'd one too's

 Enob. Oh beare me witnesse night

 2 What man is this?
1 Stand close, and list him

 Enob. Be witnesse to me (O thou blessed Moone)
When men reuolted shall vpon Record
Beare hatefull memory: poore Enobarbus did
Before thy face repent

 Cent. Enobarbus?
2 Peace: Hearke further

 Enob. Oh Soueraigne Mistris of true Melancholly,
The poysonous dampe of night dispunge vpon me,
That Life, a very Rebell to my will,
May hang no longer on me. Throw my heart
Against the flint and hardnesse of my fault,
Which being dried with greefe, will breake to powder,
And finish all foule thoughts. Oh Anthony,
Nobler then my reuolt is Infamous,
Forgiue me in thine owne particular,
But let the world ranke me in Register
A Master leauer, and a fugitiue:
Oh Anthony! Oh Anthony!
1 Let's speake to him

 Cent. Let's heare him, for the things he speakes
May concerne Caesar

 2 Let's do so; but he sleepes

 Cent. Swoonds rather, for so bad a Prayer as his
Was neuer yet for sleepe

 1 Go we to him

 2 Awake sir, awake, speake to vs

 1 Heare you sir?
Cent. The hand of death hath raught him.

Drummes afarre off.

Hearke the Drummes demurely wake the sleepers:
Let vs beare him to'th' Court of Guard: he is of note:
Our houre is fully out

 2 Come on then, he may recouer yet.

Exeunt.

Enter Anthony and Scarrus, with their Army.

 Ant. Their preparation is to day by Sea,
We please them not by Land

 Scar. For both, my Lord

 Ant. I would they'ld fight i'th' Fire, or i'th' Ayre,
Wee'ld fight there too. But this it is, our Foote
Vpon the hilles adioyning to the Citty
Shall stay with vs. Order for Sea is giuen,
They haue put forth the Hauen:
Where their appointment we may best discouer,
And looke on their endeuour.

Exeunt.

Enter Caesar, and his Army.

 Caes But being charg'd, we will be still by Land,
Which as I tak't we shall, for his best force
Is forth to Man his Gallies. To the Vales,
And hold our best aduantage.

Exeunt.

Alarum afarre off, as at a Sea-fight. Enter Anthony, and Scarrus.

 Ant. Yet they are not ioyn'd:
Where yon'd Pine does stand, I shall discouer all.
Ile bring thee word straight, how 'tis like to go.
Enter.

 Scar. Swallowes haue built
In Cleopatra's Sailes their nests. The Auguries
Say, they know not, they cannot tell, looke grimly,
And dare not speake their knowledge. Anthony,
Is valiant, and deiected, and by starts
His fretted Fortunes giue him hope and feare
Of what he has, and has not.
Enter Anthony.

 Ant. All is lost:
This fowle Egyptian hath betrayed me:
My Fleete hath yeelded to the Foe, and yonder
They cast their Caps vp, and Carowse together
Like Friends long lost. Triple-turn'd Whore, 'tis thou
Hast sold me to this Nouice, and my heart
Makes onely Warres on thee. Bid them all flye:
For when I am reueng'd vpon my Charme,
I haue done all. Bid them all flye, be gone.
Oh Sunne, thy vprise shall I see no more,
Fortune, and Anthony part heere, euen heere
Do we shake hands? All come to this? The hearts
That pannelled me at heeles, to whom I gaue
Their wishes, do dis-Candie, melt their sweets
On blossoming Caesar: And this Pine is barkt,
That ouer-top'd them all. Betray'd I am.
Oh this false Soule of Egypt! this graue Charme,
Whose eye beck'd forth my Wars, & cal'd them home:
Whose Bosome was my Crownet, my chiefe end,
Like a right Gypsie, hath at fast and loose
Beguil'd me, to the very heart of losse.
What Eros, Eros?
Enter Cleopatra.

Ah, thou Spell! Auaunt

 Cleo. Why is my Lord enrag'd against his Loue?
Ant. Vanish, or I shall giue thee thy deseruing,
And blemish Caesars Triumph. Let him take thee,
And hoist thee vp to the shouting Plebeians,
Follow his Chariot, like the greatest spot
Of all thy Sex. Most Monster-like be shewne
For poor'st Diminitiues, for Dolts, and let
Patient Octauia, plough thy visage vp
With her prepared nailes.

exit Cleopatra.

'Tis well th'art gone,
If it be well to liue. But better 'twere
Thou fell'st into my furie, for one death
Might haue preuented many. Eros, hoa!
The shirt of Nessus is vpon me, teach me
Alcides, thou mine Ancestor, thy rage.
Let me lodge Licas on the hornes o'th' Moone,
And with those hands that graspt the heauiest Club,
Subdue my worthiest selfe: The Witch shall die,
To the young Roman Boy she hath sold me, and I fall
Vnder this plot: She dyes for't. Eros hoa?
Enter.

Enter Cleopatra, Charmian, Iras, Mardian.

 Cleo. Helpe me my women: Oh hee's more mad
Then Telamon for his Shield, the Boare of Thessaly
Was neuer so imbost

 Char. To'th' Monument, there locke your selfe,
And send him word you are dead:
The Soule and Body riue not more in parting,
Then greatnesse going off

 Cleo. To'th' Monument:
Mardian, go tell him I haue slaine my selfe:
Say, that the last I spoke was Anthony,
And word it (prythee) pitteously. Hence Mardian,
And bring me how he takes my death to'th' Monument.

Exeunt.

Enter Anthony, and Eros.

 Ant. Eros, thou yet behold'st me?
Eros. I Noble Lord

 Ant. Sometime we see a clowd that's Dragonish,
A vapour sometime, like a Beare, or Lyon,
A toward Cittadell, a pendant Rocke,
A forked Mountaine, or blew Promontorie
With Trees vpon't, that nodde vnto the world,
And mocke our eyes with Ayre.
Thou hast seene these Signes,
They are blacke Vespers Pageants

 Eros. I my Lord

 Ant. That which is now a Horse, euen with a thoght
the Racke dislimes, and makes it indistinct
As water is in water

 Eros. It does my Lord

 Ant. My good Knaue Eros, now thy Captaine is
Euen such a body: Heere I am Anthony,
Yet cannot hold this visible shape (my Knaue)
I made these warres for Egypt, and the Queene,
Whose heart I thought I had, for she had mine:
Which whil'st it was mine, had annext vntoo't
A Million moe, (now lost:) shee Eros has
Packt Cards with Caesars, and false plaid my Glory
Vnto an Enemies triumph.
Nay, weepe not gentle Eros, there is left vs
Our selues to end our selues.
Enter Mardian.

Oh thy vilde Lady, she has rob'd me of my Sword

 Mar. No Anthony,
My Mistris lou'd thee, and her Fortunes mingled
with thine intirely

 Ant. Hence sawcy Eunuch peace, she hath betraid me,
And shall dye the death

 Mar. Death of one person, can be paide but once,
And that she ha's discharg'd. What thou would'st do
Is done vnto thy hand: the last she spake
Was Anthony, most Noble Anthony.
Then in the midd'st a tearing grone did breake
The name of Anthony: it was diuided
Betweene her heart, and lips: she tendred life
Thy name so buried in her

 Ant. Dead then?
Mar. Dead

 Ant. Vnarme Eros, the long dayes taske is done,
And we must sleepe: That thou depart'st hence safe
Does pay thy labour richly: Go.

exit Mardian.

Off, plucke off,
The seuen-fold shield of Aiax cannot keepe
The battery from my heart. Oh cleaue my sides.
Heart, once be stronger then thy Continent,
Cracke thy fraile Case. Apace Eros, apace;
No more a Soldier: bruised peeces go,
You haue bin Nobly borne. From me awhile.

exit Eros

I will o're-take thee Cleopatra, and
Weepe for my pardon. So it must be, for now
All length is Torture: since the Torch is out,
Lye downe and stray no farther. Now all labour
Marres what it does: yea, very force entangles
It selfe with strength: Seale then and all is done.
Eros? I come my Queene. Eros? Stay for me,
Where Soules do couch on Flowers, wee'l hand in hand,
And with our sprightly Port make the Ghostes gaze:
Dido, and her Aeneas shall want Troopes,
And all the haunt be ours. Come Eros, Eros.
Enter Eros.

 Eros. What would my Lord?
Ant. Since Cleopatra dyed,
I haue liu'd in such dishonour, that the Gods
Detest my basenesse. I, that with my Sword,
Quarter'd the World, and o're greene Neptunes backe
With Ships, made Cities; condemne my selfe, to lacke
The Courage of a Woman, lesse Noble minde
Then she which by her death, our Caesar telles
I am Conqueror of my selfe. Thou art sworne Eros,
That when the exigent should come, which now
Is come indeed: When I should see behinde me
Th' ineuitable prosecution of disgrace and horror,
That on my command, thou then would'st kill me.
Doo't, the time is come: Thou strik'st not me,
'Tis Caesar thou defeat'st. Put colour in thy Cheeke

 Eros. The Gods with-hold me,
Shall I do that which all the Parthian Darts,
(Though Enemy) lost ayme, and could not

 Ant. Eros,
Would'st thou be window'd in great Rome, and see
Thy Master thus with pleacht Armes, bending downe
His corrigible necke, his face subdu'de
To penetratiue shame; whil'st the wheel'd seate
Of Fortunate Caesar drawne before him, branded
His Basenesse that ensued

 Eros. I would not see't

 Ant. Come then: for with a wound I must be cur'd.
Draw that thy honest Sword, which thou hast worne
Most vsefull for thy Country

 Eros. Oh sir, pardon me

 Ant. When I did make thee free, swor'st y not then
To do this when I bad thee? Do it at once,
Or thy precedent Seruices are all
But accidents vnpurpos'd. Draw, and come

 Eros. Turne from me then that Noble countenance,
Wherein the worship of the whole world lyes

 Ant. Loe thee

 Eros. My sword is drawne

 Ant. Then let it do at once
The thing why thou hast drawne it

 Eros. My deere Master,
My Captaine, and my Emperor. Let me say
Before I strike this bloody stroke, Farwell

 Ant. 'Tis said man, and farewell

 Eros. Farewell great Chiefe. Shall I strike now?
Ant. Now Eros.

Killes himselfe.

 Eros. Why there then:
Thus I do escape the sorrow of Anthonies death

 Ant. Thrice-Nobler then my selfe,
Thou teachest me: Oh valiant Eros, what
I should, and thou could'st not, my Queene and Eros
Haue by their braue instruction got vpon me
A Noblenesse in Record. But I will bee
A Bride-groome in my death, and run intoo't
As to a Louers bed. Come then, and Eros,
Thy Master dies thy Scholler; to do thus
I learnt of thee. How, not dead? Not dead?
The Guard, how? Oh dispatch me.
Enter a Guard.


