1.Guard. What's the noise?
Ant. I haue done my worke ill Friends:
Oh make an end of what I haue begun

 2 The Starre is falne

 1 And time is at his Period

 All. Alas, and woe

 Ant. Let him that loues me, strike me dead

 1 Not I

 2 Nor I

 3 Nor any one.

Exeunt.

 Decretus. Thy death and fortunes bid thy folowers fly
This sword but shewne to Caesar with this tydings,
Shall enter me with him.
Enter Diomedes.

 Dio. Where's Anthony?
Decre. There Diomed there

 Diom. Liues he: wilt thou not answer man?
Ant. Art thou there Diomed?
Draw thy sword, and giue mee,
Suffising strokes for death

 Diom. Most absolute Lord:
My Mistris Cleopatra sent me to thee

 Ant. When did shee send thee?
Diom. Now my Lord

 Anth. Where is she?
Diom. Lockt in her Monument: she had a Prophesying feare
Of what hath come to passe: for when she saw
(Which neuer shall be found) you did suspect
She had dispos'd with Caesar, and that your rage
Would not be purg'd, she sent you word she was dead:
But fearing since how it might worke, hath sent
Me to proclaime the truth, and I am come
I dread, too late

 Ant. Too late good Diomed: call my Guard I prythee

 Dio. What hoa: the Emperors Guard,
The Guard, what hoa? Come, your Lord calles.
Enter 4. or 5. of the Guard of Anthony.

 Ant. Beare me good Friends where Cleopatra bides,
'Tis the last seruice that I shall command you

 1 Woe, woe are we sir, you may not liue to weare
All your true Followers out

 All. Most heauy day

 Ant. Nay good my Fellowes, do not please sharp fate
To grace it with your sorrowes. Bid that welcome
Which comes to punish vs, and we punish it
Seeming to beare it lightly. Take me vp,
I haue led you oft, carry me now good Friends,
And haue my thankes for all.

Exit bearing Anthony

Enter Cleopatra, and her Maides aloft, with Charmian & Iras.

 Cleo. Oh Charmian, I will neuer go from hence

 Char. Be comforted deere Madam

 Cleo. No, I will not:
All strange and terrible euents are welcome,
But comforts we dispise; our size of sorrow
Proportion'd to our cause, must be as great
As that which makes it.
Enter Diomed.

How now? is he dead?
Diom. His death's vpon him, but not dead.
Looke out o'th other side your Monument,
His Guard haue brought him thither.
Enter Anthony, and the Guard.

 Cleo. Oh Sunne,
Burne the great Sphere thou mou'st in, darkling stand
The varrying shore o'th' world. O Antony, Antony, Antony
Helpe Charmian, helpe Iras helpe: helpe Friends
Below, let's draw him hither

 Ant. Peace,
Not Caesars Valour hath o'rethrowne Anthony,
But Anthonie's hath Triumpht on it selfe

 Cleo. So it should be,
That none but Anthony should conquer Anthony,
But woe 'tis so

 Ant. I am dying Egypt, dying; onely
I heere importune death a-while, vntill
Of many thousand kisses, the poore last
I lay vpon thy lippes

 Cleo. I dare not Deere,
Deere my Lord pardon: I dare not,
Least I be taken: nor th' Imperious shew
Of the full-Fortun'd Caesar, euer shall
Be brooch'd with me, if Knife, Drugges, Serpents haue
Edge, sting, or operation. I am safe:
Your Wife Octauia, with her modest eyes,
And still Conclusion, shall acquire no Honour
Demuring vpon me: but come, come Anthony,
Helpe me my women, we must draw thee vp:
Assist good Friends

 Ant. Oh quicke, or I am gone

 Cleo. Heere's sport indeede:
How heauy weighes my Lord?
Our strength is all gone into heauinesse,
That makes the waight. Had I great Iuno's power,
The strong wing'd Mercury should fetch thee vp,
And set thee by Ioues side. Yet come a little,
Wishers were euer Fooles. Oh come, come, come,

They heaue Anthony aloft to Cleopatra.

And welcome, welcome. Dye when thou hast liu'd,
Quicken with kissing: had my lippes that power,
Thus would I weare them out

 All. A heauy sight

 Ant. I am dying Egypt, dying.
Giue me some Wine, and let me speake a little

 Cleo. No, let me speake, and let me rayle so hye,
That the false Huswife Fortune, breake her Wheele,
Prouok'd by my offence

 Ant. One word (sweet Queene)
Of Caesar seeke your Honour, with your safety. Oh

 Cleo. They do not go together

 Ant. Gentle heare me,
None about Caesar trust, but Proculeius

 Cleo. My Resolution, and my hands, Ile trust,
None about Caesar

 Ant. The miserable change now at my end,
Lament nor sorrow at: but please your thoughts
In feeding them with those my former Fortunes
Wherein I liued. The greatest Prince o'th' world,
The Noblest: and do now not basely dye,
Not Cowardly put off my Helmet to
My Countreyman. A Roman, by a Roman
Valiantly vanquish'd. Now my Spirit is going,
I can no more

 Cleo. Noblest of men, woo't dye?
Hast thou no care of me, shall I abide
In this dull world, which in thy absence is
No better then a Stye? Oh see my women:
The Crowne o'th' earth doth melt. My Lord?
Oh wither'd is the Garland of the Warre,
The Souldiers pole is falne: young Boyes and Gyrles
Are leuell now with men: The oddes is gone,
And there is nothing left remarkeable
Beneath the visiting Moone

 Char. Oh quietnesse, Lady

 Iras. She's dead too, our Soueraigne

 Char. Lady

 Iras. Madam

 Char. Oh Madam, Madam, Madam

 Iras. Royall Egypt: Empresse

 Char. Peace, peace, Iras

 Cleo. No more but in a Woman, and commanded
By such poore passion, as the Maid that Milkes,
And doe's the meanest chares. It were for me,
To throw my Scepter at the iniurious Gods,
To tell them that this World did equall theyrs,
Till they had stolne our Iewell. All's but naught:
Patience is sortish, and impatience does
Become a Dogge that's mad: Then is it sinne,
To rush into the secret house of death,
Ere death dare come to vs. How do you Women?
What, what good cheere? Why how now Charmian?
My Noble Gyrles? Ah Women, women! Looke
Our Lampe is spent, it's out. Good sirs, take heart,
Wee'l bury him: And then, what's braue, what's Noble,
Let's doo't after the high Roman fashion,
And make death proud to take vs. Come, away,
This case of that huge Spirit now is cold.
Ah Women, Women! Come, we haue no Friend
But Resolution, and the breefest end.

Exeunt., bearing of Anthonies body.

Enter Caesar, Agrippa, Dollabella, Menas, with his Counsell of
Warre.

 Caesar. Go to him Dollabella, bid him yeeld,
Being so frustrate, tell him,
He mockes the pawses that he makes

 Dol. Caesar, I shall.
Enter Decretas with the sword of Anthony.

 Caes Wherefore is that? And what art thou that dar'st
Appeare thus to vs?
Dec. I am call'd Decretas,
Marke Anthony I seru'd, who best was worthie
Best to be seru'd: whil'st he stood vp, and spoke
He was my Master, and I wore my life
To spend vpon his haters. If thou please
To take me to thee, as I was to him,
Ile be to Caesar: if y pleasest not, I yeild thee vp my life

 Caesar. What is't thou say'st?
Dec. I say (Oh Caesar) Anthony is dead

 Caesar. The breaking of so great a thing, should make
A greater cracke. The round World
Should haue shooke Lyons into ciuill streets,
And Cittizens to their dennes. The death of Anthony
Is not a single doome, in the name lay
A moity of the world

 Dec. He is dead Caesar,
Not by a publike minister of Iustice,
Nor by a hyred Knife, but that selfe-hand
Which writ his Honor in the Acts it did,
Hath with the Courage which the heart did lend it,
Splitted the heart. This is his Sword,
I robb'd his wound of it: behold it stain'd
With his most Noble blood

 Caes Looke you sad Friends,
The Gods rebuke me, but it is Tydings
To wash the eyes of Kings

 Dol. And strange it is,
That Nature must compell vs to lament
Our most persisted deeds

 Mec. His taints and Honours, wag'd equal with him

 Dola. A Rarer spirit neuer
Did steere humanity: but you Gods will giue vs
Some faults to make vs men. Caesar is touch'd

 Mec. When such a spacious Mirror's set before him,
He needes must see him selfe

 Caesar. Oh Anthony,
I haue followed thee to this, but we do launch
Diseases in our Bodies. I must perforce
Haue shewne to thee such a declining day,
Or looke on thine: we could not stall together,
In the whole world. But yet let me lament
With teares as Soueraigne as the blood of hearts,
That thou my Brother, my Competitor,
In top of all designe; my Mate in Empire,
Friend and Companion in the front of Warre,
The Arme of mine owne Body, and the Heart
Where mine his thoughts did kindle; that our Starres
Vnreconciliable, should diuide our equalnesse to this.
Heare me good Friends,
But I will tell you at some meeter Season,
The businesse of this man lookes out of him,
Wee'l heare him what he sayes.
Enter an aegyptian.

Whence are you?
aegyp. A poore Egyptian yet, the Queen my mistris
Confin'd in all, she has her Monument
Of thy intents, desires, instruction,
That she preparedly may frame her selfe
To'th' way shee's forc'd too

 Caesar. Bid her haue good heart,
She soone shall know of vs, by some of ours,
How honourable, and how kindely Wee
Determine for her. For Caesar cannot leaue to be vngentle
aegypt. So the Gods preserue thee.
Enter.

 Caes Come hither Proculeius. Go and say
We purpose her no shame: giue her what comforts
The quality of her passion shall require;
Least in her greatnesse, by some mortall stroke
She do defeate vs. For her life in Rome,
Would be eternall in our Triumph: Go,
And with your speediest bring vs what she sayes,
And how you finde of her

 Pro. Caesar I shall.

Exit Proculeius.

 Caes Gallus, go you along: where's Dolabella, to second
Proculeius?
All. Dolabella

 Caes Let him alone: for I remember now
How hee's imployd: he shall in time be ready.
Go with me to my Tent, where you shall see
How hardly I was drawne into this Warre,
How calme and gentle I proceeded still
In all my Writings. Go with me, and see
What I can shew in this.

Exeunt.

Enter Cleopatra, Charmian, Iras, and Mardian.

 Cleo. My desolation does begin to make
A better life: Tis paltry to be Caesar:
Not being Fortune, hee's but Fortunes knaue,
A minister of her will: and it is great
To do that thing that ends all other deeds,
Which shackles accedents, and bolts vp change;
Which sleepes, and neuer pallates more the dung,
The beggers Nurse, and Caesars.
Enter Proculeius.

 Pro. Caesar sends greeting to the Queene of Egypt,
And bids thee study on what faire demands
Thou mean'st to haue him grant thee

 Cleo. What's thy name?
Pro. My name is Proculeius

 Cleo. Anthony
Did tell me of you, bad me trust you, but
I do not greatly care to be deceiu'd
That haue no vse for trusting. If your Master
Would haue a Queene his begger, you must tell him,
That Maiesty to keepe decorum, must
No lesse begge then a Kingdome: If he please
To giue me conquer'd Egypt for my Sonne,
He giues me so much of mine owne, as I
Will kneele to him with thankes

 Pro. Be of good cheere:
Y'are falne into a Princely hand, feare nothing,
Make your full reference freely to my Lord,
Who is so full of Grace, that it flowes ouer
On all that neede. Let me report to him
Your sweet dependancie, and you shall finde
A Conqueror that will pray in ayde for kindnesse,
Where he for grace is kneel'd too

 Cleo. Pray you tell him,
I am his Fortunes Vassall, and I send him
The Greatnesse he has got. I hourely learne
A Doctrine of Obedience, and would gladly
Looke him i'th' Face

 Pro. This Ile report (deere Lady)
Haue comfort, for I know your plight is pittied
Of him that caus'd it

 Pro. You see how easily she may be surpriz'd:
Guard her till Caesar come

 Iras. Royall Queene

 Char. Oh Cleopatra, thou art taken Queene

 Cleo. Quicke, quicke, good hands

 Pro. Hold worthy Lady, hold:
Doe not your selfe such wrong, who are in this
Releeu'd, but not betraid

 Cleo. What of death too that rids our dogs of languish
Pro. Cleopatra, do not abuse my Masters bounty, by
Th' vndoing of your selfe: Let the World see
His Noblenesse well acted, which your death
Will neuer let come forth

 Cleo. Where art thou Death?
Come hither come; Come, come, and take a Queene
Worth many Babes and Beggers

 Pro. Oh temperance Lady

 Cleo. Sir, I will eate no meate, Ile not drinke sir,
If idle talke will once be necessary
Ile not sleepe neither. This mortall house Ile ruine,
Do Caesar what he can. Know sir, that I
Will not waite pinnion'd at your Masters Court,
Nor once be chastic'd with the sober eye
Of dull Octauia. Shall they hoyst me vp,
And shew me to the showting Varlotarie
Of censuring Rome? Rather a ditch in Egypt.
Be gentle graue vnto me, rather on Nylus mudde
Lay me starke-nak'd, and let the water-Flies
Blow me into abhorring; rather make
My Countries high pyramides my Gibbet,
And hang me vp in Chaines

 Pro. You do extend
These thoughts of horror further then you shall
Finde cause in Caesar.
Enter Dolabella.

 Dol. Proculeius,
What thou hast done, thy Master Caesar knowes,
And he hath sent for thee: for the Queene,
Ile take her to my Guard

 Pro. So Dolabella,
It shall content me best: Be gentle to her,
To Caesar I will speake, what you shall please,
If you'l imploy me to him.

Exit Proculeius

 Cleo. Say, I would dye

 Dol. Most Noble Empresse, you haue heard of me

 Cleo. I cannot tell

 Dol. Assuredly you know me

 Cleo. No matter sir, what I haue heard or knowne:
You laugh when Boyes or Women tell their Dreames,
Is't not your tricke?
Dol. I vnderstand not, Madam

 Cleo. I dreampt there was an Emperor Anthony.
Oh such another sleepe, that I might see
But such another man

 Dol. If it might please ye

 Cleo. His face was as the Heau'ns, and therein stucke
A Sunne and Moone, which kept their course, & lighted
The little o'th' earth

 Dol. Most Soueraigne Creature

 Cleo. His legges bestrid the Ocean, his rear'd arme
Crested the world: His voyce was propertied
As all the tuned Spheres, and that to Friends:
But when he meant to quaile, and shake the Orbe,
He was as ratling Thunder. For his Bounty,
There was no winter in't. An Anthony it was,
That grew the more by reaping: His delights
Were Dolphin-like, they shew'd his backe aboue
The Element they liu'd in: In his Liuery
Walk'd Crownes and Crownets: Realms & Islands were
As plates dropt from his pocket

 Dol. Cleopatra

 Cleo. Thinke you there was, or might be such a man
As this I dreampt of?
Dol. Gentle Madam, no

 Cleo. You Lye vp to the hearing of the Gods:
But if there be, not euer were one such
It's past the size of dreaming: Nature wants stuffe
To vie strange formes with fancie, yet t' imagine
An Anthony were Natures peece, 'gainst Fancie,
Condemning shadowes quite

 Dol. Heare me, good Madam:
Your losse is as your selfe, great; and you beare it
As answering to the waight, would I might neuer
Ore-take pursu'de successe: But I do feele
By the rebound of yours, a greefe that suites
My very heart at roote

 Cleo. I thanke you sir:
Know you what Caesar meanes to do with me?
Dol. I am loath to tell you what, I would you knew

 Cleo. Nay pray you sir

 Dol. Though he be Honourable

 Cleo. Hee'l leade me then in Triumph

 Dol. Madam he will, I know't.

Flourish.

Enter Proculeius, Caesar, Gallus, Mecenas, and others of his
Traine.

 All. Make way there Caesar

 Caes Which is the Queene of Egypt

 Dol. It is the Emperor Madam.

Cleo. kneeles.

 Caesar. Arise, you shall not kneele:
I pray you rise, rise Egypt

 Cleo. Sir, the Gods will haue it thus,
My Master and my Lord I must obey,
Caesar. Take to you no hard thoughts,
The Record of what iniuries you did vs,
Though written in our flesh, we shall remember
As things but done by chance

 Cleo. Sole Sir o'th' World,
I cannot proiect mine owne cause so well
To make it cleare, but do confesse I haue
Bene laden with like frailties, which before
Haue often sham'd our Sex

 Caesar. Cleopatra know,
We will extenuate rather then inforce:
If you apply your selfe to our intents,
Which towards you are most gentle, you shall finde
A benefit in this change: but if you seeke
To lay on me a Cruelty, by taking
Anthonies course, you shall bereaue your selfe
Of my good purposes, and put your children
To that destruction which Ile guard them from,
If thereon you relye. Ile take my leaue

 Cleo. And may through all the world: tis yours, & we
your Scutcheons, and your signes of Conquest shall
Hang in what place you please. Here my good Lord

 Caesar. You shall aduise me in all for Cleopatra

 Cleo. This is the breefe: of Money, Plate, & Iewels
I am possest of, 'tis exactly valewed,
Not petty things admitted. Where's Seleucus?
Seleu. Heere Madam

 Cleo. This is my Treasurer, let him speake (my Lord)
Vpon his perill, that I haue reseru'd
To my selfe nothing. Speake the truth Seleucus

 Seleu. Madam, I had rather seele my lippes,
Then to my perill speake that which is not

 Cleo. What haue I kept backe

 Sel. Enough to purchase what you haue made known
Caesar. Nay blush not Cleopatra, I approue
Your Wisedome in the deede

 Cleo. See Caesar: Oh behold,
How pompe is followed: Mine will now be yours,
And should we shift estates, yours would be mine.
The ingratitude of this Seleucus, does
Euen make me wilde. Oh Slaue, of no more trust
Then loue that's hyr'd? What goest thou backe, y shalt
Go backe I warrant thee: but Ile catch thine eyes
Though they had wings. Slaue, Soule-lesse, Villain, Dog.
O rarely base!
Caesar. Good Queene, let vs intreat you

 Cleo. O Caesar, what a wounding shame is this,
That thou vouchsafing heere to visit me,
Doing the Honour of thy Lordlinesse
To one so meeke, that mine owne Seruant should
Parcell the summe of my disgraces, by
Addition of his Enuy. Say (good Caesar)
That I some Lady trifles haue reseru'd,
Immoment toyes, things of such Dignitie
As we greet moderne Friends withall, and say
Some Nobler token I haue kept apart
For Liuia and Octauia, to induce
Their mediation, must I be vnfolded
With one that I haue bred: The Gods! it smites me
Beneath the fall I haue. Prythee go hence,
Or I shall shew the Cynders of my spirits
Through th' Ashes of my chance: Wer't thou a man,
Thou would'st haue mercy on me

 Caesar. Forbeare Seleucus

 Cleo. Be it known, that we the greatest are mis-thoght
For things that others do: and when we fall,
We answer others merits, in our name
Are therefore to be pittied

 Caesar. Cleopatra,
Not what you haue reseru'd, nor what acknowledg'd
Put we i'th' Roll of Conquest: still bee't yours,
Bestow it at your pleasure, and beleeue
Caesars no Merchant, to make prize with you
Of things that Merchants sold. Therefore be cheer'd,
Make not your thoughts your prisons: No deere Queen,
For we intend so to dispose you, as
Your selfe shall giue vs counsell: Feede, and sleepe:
Our care and pitty is so much vpon you,
That we remaine your Friend, and so adieu

 Cleo. My Master, and my Lord

 Caesar. Not so: Adieu.

Flourish. Exeunt Caesar, and his Traine.

 Cleo. He words me Gyrles, he words me,
That I should not be Noble to my selfe.
But hearke thee Charmian

 Iras. Finish good Lady, the bright day is done,
And we are for the darke

 Cleo. Hye thee againe,
I haue spoke already, and it is prouided,
Go put it to the haste

 Char. Madam, I will.
Enter Dolabella.

 Dol. Where's the Queene?
Char. Behold sir

 Cleo. Dolabella

 Dol. Madam, as thereto sworne, by your command
(Which my loue makes Religion to obey)
I tell you this: Caesar through Syria
Intends his iourney, and within three dayes,
You with your Children will he send before,
Make your best vse of this. I haue perform'd
Your pleasure, and my promise

 Cleo. Dolabella, I shall remaine your debter

 Dol. I your Seruant:
Adieu good Queene, I must attend on Caesar.

Exit

 Cleo. Farewell, and thankes.
Now Iras, what think'st thou?
Thou, an Egyptian Puppet shall be shewne
In Rome aswell as I: Mechanicke Slaues
With greazie Aprons, Rules, and Hammers shall
Vplift vs to the view. In their thicke breathes,
Ranke of grosse dyet, shall we be enclowded,
And forc'd to drinke their vapour

 Iras. The Gods forbid

 Cleo. Nay, 'tis most certaine Iras: sawcie Lictors
Will catch at vs like Strumpets, and scald Rimers
Ballads vs out a Tune. The quicke Comedians
Extemporally will stage vs, and present
Our Alexandrian Reuels: Anthony
Shall be brought drunken forth, and I shall see
Some squeaking Cleopatra Boy my greatnesse
I'th' posture of a Whore

 Iras. O the good Gods!
Cleo. Nay that's certaine

 Iras. Ile neuer see't? for I am sure mine Nailes
Are stronger then mine eyes

 Cleo. Why that's the way to foole their preparation,
And to conquer their most absurd intents.
Enter Charmian.

Now Charmian.
Shew me my Women like a Queene: Go fetch
My best Attyres. I am againe for Cidrus,
To meete Marke Anthony. Sirra Iras, go
(Now Noble Charmian, wee'l dispatch indeede,)
And when thou hast done this chare, Ile giue thee leaue
To play till Doomesday: bring our Crowne, and all.

A noise within.

Wherefore's this noise?
Enter a Guardsman.

 Gards. Heere is a rurall Fellow,
That will not be deny'de your Highnesse presence,
He brings you Figges

 Cleo. Let him come in.

Exit Guardsman.

What poore an Instrument
May do a Noble deede: he brings me liberty:
My Resolution's plac'd, and I haue nothing
Of woman in me: Now from head to foote
I am Marble constant: now the fleeting Moone
No Planet is of mine.
Enter Guardsman, and Clowne.

 Guards. This is the man

 Cleo. Auoid, and leaue him.

Exit Guardsman.

Hast thou the pretty worme of Nylus there,
That killes and paines not?
Clow. Truly I haue him: but I would not be the partie
that should desire you to touch him, for his byting is
immortall: those that doe dye of it, doe seldome or neuer
recouer

 Cleo. Remember'st thou any that haue dyed on't?
Clow. Very many, men and women too. I heard of
one of them no longer then yesterday, a very honest woman,
but something giuen to lye, as a woman should not
do, but in the way of honesty, how she dyed of the byting
of it, what paine she felt: Truely, she makes a verie
good report o'th' worme: but he that wil beleeue all that
they say, shall neuer be saued by halfe that they do: but
this is most falliable, the Worme's an odde Worme

 Cleo. Get thee hence, farewell

 Clow. I wish you all ioy of the Worme

 Cleo. Farewell

 Clow. You must thinke this (looke you,) that the
Worme will do his kinde

 Cleo. I, I, farewell

 Clow. Looke you, the Worme is not to bee trusted,
but in the keeping of wise people: for indeede, there is
no goodnesse in the Worme

 Cleo. Take thou no care, it shall be heeded

 Clow. Very good: giue it nothing I pray you, for it
is not worth the feeding

 Cleo. Will it eate me?
Clow. You must not think I am so simple, but I know
the diuell himselfe will not eate a woman: I know, that
a woman is a dish for the Gods, if the diuell dresse her
not. But truly, these same whorson diuels doe the Gods
great harme in their women: for in euery tenne that they
make, the diuels marre fiue

 Cleo. Well, get thee gone, farewell

 Clow. Yes forsooth: I wish you ioy o'th' worm.

Exit

 Cleo. Giue me my Robe, put on my Crowne, I haue
Immortall longings in me. Now no more
The iuyce of Egypts Grape shall moyst this lip.
Yare, yare, good Iras; quicke: Me thinkes I heare
Anthony call: I see him rowse himselfe
To praise my Noble Act. I heare him mock
The lucke of Caesar, which the Gods giue men
To excuse their after wrath. Husband, I come:
Now to that name, my Courage proue my Title.
I am Fire, and Ayre; my other Elements
I giue to baser life. So, haue you done?
Come then, and take the last warmth of my Lippes.
Farewell kinde Charmian, Iras, long farewell.
Haue I the Aspicke in my lippes? Dost fall?
If thou, and Nature can so gently part,
The stroke of death is as a Louers pinch,
Which hurts, and is desir'd. Dost thou lye still?
If thus thou vanishest, thou tell'st the world,
It is not worth leaue-taking

 Char. Dissolue thicke clowd, & Raine, that I may say
The Gods themselues do weepe

 Cleo. This proues me base:
If she first meete the Curled Anthony,
Hee'l make demand of her, and spend that kisse
Which is my heauen to haue. Come thou mortal wretch,
With thy sharpe teeth this knot intrinsicate,
Of life at once vntye: Poore venomous Foole,
Be angry, and dispatch. Oh could'st thou speake,
That I might heare thee call great Caesar Asse, vnpolicied

 Char. Oh Easterne Starre

 Cleo. Peace, peace:
Dost thou not see my Baby at my breast,
That suckes the Nurse asleepe

 Char. O breake! O breake!
Cleo. As sweet as Balme, as soft as Ayre, as gentle.
O Anthony! Nay I will take thee too.
What should I stay-

Dyes.

 Char. In this wilde World? So fare thee well:
Now boast thee Death, in thy possession lyes
A Lasse vnparalell'd. Downie Windowes cloze,
And golden Phoebus, neuer be beheld
Of eyes againe so Royall: your Crownes away,
Ile mend it, and then play-
Enter the Guard rustling in; and Dolabella.

 1.Guard. Where's the Queene?
Char. Speake softly, wake her not

 1 Caesar hath sent
Char. Too slow a Messenger.
Oh come apace, dispatch, I partly feele thee

 1 Approach hoa,
All's not well: Caesar's beguild

 2 There's Dolabella sent from Caesar: call him

 1 What worke is heere Charmian?
Is this well done?
Char. It is well done, and fitting for a Princesse
Descended of so many Royall Kings.
Ah Souldier.

Charmian dyes.

Enter Dolabella.

 Dol. How goes it heere?
2.Guard. All dead

 Dol. Caesar, thy thoughts
Touch their effects in this: Thy selfe art comming
To see perform'd the dreaded Act which thou
So sought'st to hinder.
Enter Caesar and all his Traine, marching.

 All. A way there, a way for Caesar

 Dol. Oh sir, you are too sure an Augurer:
That you did feare, is done

 Caesar. Brauest at the last,
She leuell'd at our purposes, and being Royall
Tooke her owne way: the manner of their deaths,
I do not see them bleede

 Dol. Who was last with them?
1.Guard. A simple Countryman, that broght hir Figs:
This was his Basket

 Caesar. Poyson'd then

 1.Guard. Oh Caesar:
This Charmian liu'd but now, she stood and spake:
I found her trimming vp the Diadem;
On her dead Mistris tremblingly she stood,
And on the sodaine dropt

 Caesar. Oh Noble weakenesse:
If they had swallow'd poyson, 'twould appeare
By externall swelling: but she lookes like sleepe,
As she would catch another Anthony
In her strong toyle of Grace

 Dol. Heere on her brest,
There is a vent of Bloud, and something blowne,
The like is on her Arme

 1.Guard. This is an Aspickes traile,
And these Figge-leaues haue slime vpon them, such
As th' Aspicke leaues vpon the Caues of Nyle

 Caesar. Most probable
That so she dyed: for her Physitian tels mee
She hath pursu'de Conclusions infinite
Of easie wayes to dye. Take vp her bed,
And beare her Women from the Monument,
She shall be buried by her Anthony.
No Graue vpon the earth shall clip in it
A payre so famous: high euents as these
Strike those that make them: and their Story is
No lesse in pitty, then his Glory which
Brought them to be lamented. Our Army shall
In solemne shew, attend this Funerall,
And then to Rome. Come Dolabella, see
High Order, in this great Solemnity.

Exeunt. omnes

FINIS. THE TRAGEDIE OF Anthonie, and Cleopatra.


